C++ Programming project - Group 1 / Artillery
Assigned assistant: Joel Huttunen


Scope of the project

The project is a generic Worms-clone; A multiplayer game where characters of opposing players try to shoot each other with different weapons. The characters are able to move and jump around. The randomly generated terrain is destructible but doesn't collapse on itself, creating a Worms-style Swiss cheese end result.

We also have several possible extra features in mind, which we will add to the game if schedule allows.

Worms-clone
	Core features:
		Characters move, jump and shoot
		Multiplayer
			1 character per player
		Destructible terrain
		Three weapons
		Randomly generated maps
	Possible extra features
		Team of characters per player
		Audio
		More weapons
		Mutators
			Low grav
			High wind
			Low health
		Health and weapon drops
		Different terrain types
		Map editor (drawing maps)

SFML is used as the main graphics library. We aim to write portable code so that the game should work on any platform SFML supports. Ubuntu is used as main development platform. Documentation and tests are written concurrently the actual game code. We'll try to follow TDD style and write separate tests for everything. GTest will be used as the unit testing framework. Branches are created for all new features and only finished code will be merged to master. Master branch should always contain a working prototype.


Basic overview of the code

Classes
	Game (holds pointers to active states, calls active GameState)
		GameState (different state-classes inherit from this: game logic, updates, drawing)
			Intro?
			Main menu
			Play view
			Pause menu
			Game over
			Outro?
	Player (available weapons & characters)
		Character (sprite, movement, health)
		Weapon (holds sprite and ammo)
			Ammo (spawned when shot, handles collision detection, trajectory, etc.)
	Map (terrain, wind condition)

Main function initializes the game and loads the first game state. A loop then calls the update functions in Game while there is an active state. If no state is active anymore, the game has finished and the main function will handle the cleanup and exit. 



Schedule

By mid-meeting we plan to have ready a prototype game with two characters, one weapon and a flat terrain. Moving, jumping and shooting should all work. We should have basic sprites done for all these components.

After the prototype is done, we will concentrate on the random terrain generation and adding possible extra features; More weapons, team of characters for each player, etc.

// REMOVE NOTES FROM FINAL?
	Mid meeting
		Characters work (move, jump, shoot on level terrain)
		Bazooka works (gravity)
		Basic sprites made
	Final crunch
		terrain generator
		extra weapons
//
